Chapter 2: Predeclared Types and Declarations

    In Chapter 2, its time to Start Looking at Go language features and how to best use them.
    to figure out what best means
        there is one overriding principle:
            Write your programs in a way that makes your intentions clear.
            particular approach that will produce clearer code.

    2.1 The Predeclared Types
        Go has many types built into the language. 
        These are called predeclared types.
        They are similar to types that are found in other languages:
            Booleans, integers, floats and strings.

        Using these types idiomatically is sometimes a challenge for developers who are transitioning
        from another language. you'll look at these types and see how they work best in Go. Before i review
        the types, lets cover of the concept that apply to all types

        The Zero Value 
            Go like most modern languages, assigns a default zero value to any variable that is declared
            but not assigned a value. Having an explicit zero value makes code clearer and removes
            a source of bugs found in C and C++ programs. 
            There will be zero value for the types.
            Find details on The Go Programming Language Specification.

        Literals
            A Go literal is an explicitly specified number, character, or string. Go programs have four
            common linds of literals. with fifth rare kind of literal

            An Integer literal is a sequence of numbers.
            Integer literal are base 10 by default, but different prefixes are used to indicate
            other bases: Ob for binary (base 2)m Oo fir octal(base 8), or Ox for hexadecimal (base 16).
            you can use either upper or lowercase letters for the prefix. A leading O with no letter after it 
            is another way to represent an octal literal. 
            Do not use it 

            To make it easier to read integer literals, Go allows you to put underscores
            in the middle of your literal. this allows you to group by thousands in base 10 (1_234)

            these underscores have no effect on the value of the number
            the only limitations on underscores are that they can't be at the beginning or end of numbers 
            you can't have them next to each other as well 

            you could put an underscores between every digit 
            for e.g 1_2_3_4
            but dont do it  
            use them to improve readability by breaking up base 10 numbers at the thousands place or to break up 
            binary, octal, or hexadecimal numbers at 1-,2-,or 4-byte boundaries  


            A floating-point literal has a decimal point to indicate the fractional portion of the 
            value. They can also have an exponent specified with the letter e and a positive or negative
            number (such as 6.03e23). You also have the option to write them in hexadecimal by using the 0x prefix.
            and letter p for indicating any exponent (0x12.34p5, which is equal to 582.5 in base 10). 
            as integer literals you can use underscores to format your floating point literals

            A rune literal represents a character and is surrounded by single quotes. Unlike many other languages
            in Go single quotes and double quotes are not interchangeable. Rune literals can be written as single.
            Unicode characters ('a'), 8 bit octal numbers ('\141'), 8-bit hexadecimal numbers ('\x61'),
            16-bit hexadecimal numbers ('\u0061'), or 32 -bit Unicode numbers ('U00000061'). 
            There are also several backslash excaped rune literals, with the most useful ones being newline ('\n'),
            tab ('\t'), single quote ('\''), and backslash ('\\')


            Practically speaking, ue base 10 to represent your integer and floating point literals
            Octal representations are rare, mostly used to represent POSIX permission flag values
            such as Oo777 for rwxrwxrwx. hexadecimal and binary are sometimes used for bit filters
            or networking and infrastructure applications.


            There are two ways to indicate string literals.
            Most of the time, you should use double quotes to create an interpreted string literal
            e.g : 
                "Greetings and Salutations"
            
            These contain zero or more rune literals. they are called interpreted 
            becuase they interpret rune literals numeric and backslash excaped
            into a single characters..
                One rune literal backslash excaped is not legal in a string literal:
                the single quotes excape it is replace by a backslash excape for double quotes

            The only characters that cannot appear in an interpreted string literal are unescaped backslashes,
            unescaped newlines, and unescaped double.
            if you use an interpreted string literal and want your greetings on a different line from  your
            Salutations and want "salutations" to appear in quotes, you need to type 
                "Greetings and\n\"Salutations\"".
            
            If you need to include backslashes, double quotes, or newlines in your string, using 
            a raw string literal is easier. These are delimited with backquotes(`) and can contain
            any character except a backquote. 
            Ther is no excape character in a raw string literal 
            all characters are included as is 
            When using raw string literal, 
            you write a multiline greeting like so:
            `Greetings and
            "Salutations"`

            Literals are cansidered untyped...

        Booleans
            The bool type represents Boolean variables. Variables of bool type can have one of two values:
            true or false.
            The zero value for a bool is false.

                var flag bool // no value assigned, set to false
                var isAwesome = true

        Numeric Types
            Go has a larger number of numeric types:
                12 types (and a few special names) that are grouped into three categories.

            Interger types
                Go provides both signed and unsigned integers in a variety of sizes, from one 
                to eight bytes 
                    type name       Value range
                    int8            -128 to 127
                    int16           -32768 to 32767
                    int32           -2147483648 to 2147483647
                    int64           -9223372036854775808 to 9223372036854775807
                    uint8           0 to 255
                    uint16          0 to 65535
                    uint32          0 to 4294967295
                    uint64          0 to 18446744073709551615

                The Special Type integer types
                    Go does have some special names for integer types. 
                    A byte is an alias for uint8
                    it is legal to assign, compare or perform mathematical operations between a byte and a unit8
                    however, you rarely see uint8 used in Go code; just call it a byte.

                    The second special name is int. On a 32 bit CPU, int is a 32bit signed integer like an int32
                    On must 64 bit cpus, int is a 64 bit signed integer, just like an int64 
                    because int isn't consistent from platform to platform, it is compile time error to assign compare or perform
                    mathematical operations between an int and an int32 
                    or int64 without a type conversion. integer literals default to being of int types.

                    The third special name is uint.
                
                Choosing which integer to use
                    Go provides more integer types than some other languages. Given all these choices
                    you might wonder when you should use each of them. 

                        if you are working with binary file format or network protocol that has an integer of specific sizes
                        or sign, use the corresponding integer type

                        if you are writing a library function that should work with any integer type, take advantages of
                        Go generics support and use a generic type parameter to represent any integer type

                        in all other cases, just use int

                        FormatInt and FormatUint in the strconv package to see the pattern
                    
                Integer operators
                    Go integer support the usual arithmetic operators:
                        +, -, *, /, with % for modules.

                    don't divide an integer with 0.

                    you can combine any of arithmetic operators with = to modify a variable

                    +=, -=, *=, /=, and %=, 
                    for e.g:
                        var x int = 10
                        x *= 2

                    compare integers with 
                        ==, !=, >, >=, <, and <=

                    Go also has bit-manipulation operators for integers
                    bit shift left << and right >>
                    bit mask 
                        & bitwise AND,
                        | bitwise OR,
                        ^ bitwise XOR,
                        &^ bitwise AND not

                    as with arithmetic operators you can also combine all 
                    the bitwise operators with = to modify variable:

                    &=, |=, ^=, &^=, <<=, and >>=


            Floating-point types 
                
                    
                